Write discrete event simulation subsection (#6)
11michalis11/Thesis: chapters/03_queueing_model/01_discrete_event_simulation/main.tex

\subsection{Discrete Event Simulation}
% TODO: Write DES subsection - emphasise on custom Node + include some code for
% node class
This section describes the discrete event simulation (DES) model used to

> represent the queueing network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
represent the queueing network of Section~\ref{sec:}.  % TODO Add correct label for section.
```

The python library \lstinline[style=pystyle]{ciw}~\cite{ciwpython, ciwarticle}
was used to implement the DES model.
The library treats queues as distinct nodes in the network where each node has
an arrival distribution, a service distribution, a number of available servers
and a queue capacity.

> For more complex systems additional inputs can be used (baulking, reneging,
> priority change) but for the model described in this section these won't be
> needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

The following code can be used to generate a queueing network with two
queues and two types of individuals, where type 1 individuals arrive at node
2 (waiting zone 1) with an arrival rate of \lstinline[style=pystyle]{lambda_1}
and type 2 individuals arrive at node 1 (waiting zone 2) with an arrival rate of
\lstinline[style=pystyle]{lambda_2}.
Node 1 has a deterministic fixed service rate of \lstinline[style=pystyle]{0}
(since there is no service involved in the buffer centre) and node 2 has an
exponential service rate of \lstinline[style=pystyle]{mu}.

\begin{lstlisting}[style=pystyle]

> >>> import ciw

Reviewer: Do you have doctesting turned on in for your CI?

>>> model = ciw.create_network(
...     arrival_distributions=[
...         ciw.dists.Exponential(lambda_2),
...         ciw.dists.Exponential(lambda_1)
...     ],
...     service_distributions=[
...         ciw.dists.Deterministic(0), ciw.dists.Exponential(mu)
...     ],
...     routing=[
...         [0.0, 1.0],
...         [0.0, 0.0]
...     ],
...     number_of_servers=[buffer_capacity, num_of_servers],
...     queue_capacities=[0, system_capacity - num_of_servers],
... )
\end{lstlisting}

> As described earlier in section \ref{sec:queueing-section} and as shown in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As described earlier in Section~\ref{sec:queueing-section} and as shown in
```

The `~` ensures the line breaks are ok in the compiled version.

> figure \ref{fig:diagram_of_queueing_system}, type 1 individuals arrive at node 2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Figure~\ref{fig:diagram_of_queueing_system}, type 1 individuals arrive at node 2
```

These should be capitalised, if I've missed that throughout please change.

and exit the system after their service finishes, but type 2 individuals arrive
at node 1 and then proceed to node 2 after leaving node 1.
This logic is implemented in the queueing network using the

> \lstinline[style=pystyle]{routing} matrix that consists of the routing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
\lstinline[style=pystyle]{routing} parameter that consists of the routing
```

...                 otherwise cause blockage
...             - Note that blockage also occurs when we are at node 1 and
...                 the number of individuals on node 2 are more than the
...                 'threshold'
...             """
...             (
...                 next_individual,
...                 next_individual_index
...             ) = self.find_next_individual()
...             self.change_customer_class(next_individual)
...             next_node = self.next_node(next_individual)
...             next_individual.destination = next_node.id_number
...             if not np.isinf(self.c):
...                 next_individual.server.next_end_service_date=float("Inf")
...             blockage = (
...                 next_node.number_of_individuals >= threshold
...                 and self.id_number == 1
...             )
...             if (
...                 next_node.number_of_individuals < next_node.node_capacity
...             ) and not blockage:
...                 self.release(next_individual_index, next_node)
...             else:
...                 self.block_individual(next_individual, next_node)
...
...     return CustomNode
\end{lstlisting}

> % TODO: Is this too long? Should I only include the "important" stuff?

Reviewer: I think it's fine.

\subsection{Discrete Event Simulation}

> Discrete event simulation (DES) is currently one of the most popular modelling
> techniques.

Reviewer: Try and avoid sentences like this that are a bit vague. Depending on what you mean by "modelling" this could be incorrect at best.

```suggestion

```

> It is a method for modelling the behaviour of real-world systems in which the
> system is made up of discrete events, each of which has a certain
> duration~\cite{DESstewart}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Discrete Event Simulation (DES) is a method for modelling the behaviour of real-world systems in which the
system is made up of discrete events, each of which has a certain
duration~\cite{DESstewart}.
```

It can be used to understand complex situations in order to make predictions
and thus provide improvements~\cite{VinceGeraintBook}.

> There three main approaches to building DES models are the activity scanning

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The three main approaches to building DES models are the activity scanning
```

approach, the event scheduling approach and the process interaction
approach~\cite{DESapproaches}.
Under the scope of this study only the event scheduling approach is considered.
This section describes the discrete event simulation (DES) model used to
represent the queueing network of Section~\ref{sec:queueing-section}.

In order to use DES on the queueing network described in

> Figure~\ref{fig:diagram_of_queueing_system} some slight modifications are
> required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Figure~\ref{fig:diagram_of_queueing_system} an equivalent queueing network must be constructed.
```

The current queueing network is a two-node queueing system that accepts two
types of individuals, where type 1 individuals arrive at waiting zone 1 and
type 2 individuals arrive at waiting zone 2.
The modification that is required revolves around the mechanisms of waiting
zone 2.
Waiting zone 2 is defined as a non-service node where there is only a queueing
space for individuals to wait there until they are allowed to waiting zone 1.
From an implementation perspective there is an equivalent system that can be
used where instead of a node with no service and queueing capacity \(M\), there
are \(M\) servers each serving with a service rate of \(0\) and no queueing

> capacity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
capacity. As shown in Figure % TODO Add figure caption.
```

\input{chapters/03_queueing_model/img/equivalent_queueing_model_diagram.tex}

> 

Reviewer: Make this a figure.

In the caption include a sentence along the lines of:

```
Note that there is no waiting zone at the first service node.
```

Author: This is already a figure. The current caption is:

```latex
An equivalent model to the one described in
Figure~\ref{fig:diagram_of_queueing_system}. The difference between the two
diagrams is the formulation of waiting zone 2. The original diagram uses
a node with no servers and a queueing capacity of \(M\) while this one uses
\(M\) servers with no queueing capacity.
```

The arrival times for both waiting zones are exponentially distributed with
mean \(\lambda_1\) and \(\lambda_2\) corresponding to type 1 and type 2
individuals respectively.
Waiting zone 1 has an exponentially distributed service time with rate \(\mu\),
a total of \(C\) servers and a queueing capacity of \(N - C\) (making the

> overall capacity \(N\)). 

Reviewer: Here you're using waiting zone but include service rates, would service node not be a better term?

A service node can then be made up of servers and waiting zones.

Author: I'm using the term `waiting zone` to describe the entire node but I can see how this can be problematic. I can change these to `server node 1` and `server node 2`. Although no service takes place at `node 2` (deterministic service time of `0`). It's still fine to call it a server node right?

Should I update this diagram as well then:
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/20097997/185180767-4316b7c9-59dc-4678-b74b-f980416f53e3.png)

> Waiting zone 2 has a deterministic service rate of \(0\), a total of \(M\)
> servers and a queueing capacity of \(M\).
> Note here that parameters \(N\) and \(M\) are optional and can be also set to
> infinity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Waiting zone 2 has a deterministic service time of \(0\), a total of \(M\)
servers and a queueing capacity of \(M\).
Note here that, similar to Figure % TODO add caption
 parameters \(N\) and \(M\) are used to approximate the real world system 
 and in fact can be taken to be infinite in the DES.
```

> The final parameter to be defined is the routing 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
